Exception:An unwanted even that disturb normal flow of program is called exception

Types of Exceptions:
1. Checked Exceptions:
Checked exceptions are those that the compiler forces you to handle explicitly.
Examples include IOException, SQLException, etc.
Handling checked exceptions is done using the try-catch block.

2. Unchecked Exceptions:
Unchecked exceptions are not checked at compile-time but are thrown at runtime.
Examples include NullPointerException, ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException, etc.
Handling unchecked exceptions is optional but recommended


Note: RuntimeException and its child classes, Error and its child classes are unchecked
and all the remaining are considered as checked exceptions.

Note: Whether exception is checked or unchecked compulsory it should occurs at
runtime only and there is no chance of occurring any exception at compile time

Fully checked Vs Partially checked:

A checked exception is said to be fully checked if and only if all its child classes are also checked.
-->check exception ko ya toh hmm try-catch se handles karte ha ya usse deleget kar dete hai(matlab throws lga dete h jo default exception handle karta h)

Example:
1) IOException
2) InterruptedException

A checked exception is said to be partially checked if and only if some of its child classes are
unchecked.
Example:
Exception
Note: The only possible partially checked exceptions in java are:
1. Throwable.
2. Exception.

exception handling:
in my program if i am having any code that may raise a exception is called risky code,this should be placedin try block and thecorresponding handling code in catch block


finalize:is a method call by garbage collector before destroyed the object
final :is keyword used in variable for making constant
finally: is a block of code which use with try and catch and excute any how
          -->we can use the finally block after try catch block
          -->the finally block is always excuted whether there is an exception inside the try block or not
          -->its is good practice to use finally block to included important cleanup code like closing a file or connection

          some case when finally block does not excute
          -->use of system.exit() method
          --:an exception occur in finally block
          -->the dead of thread

Note:agar kio exception handle na kare toh default exception handler karta h


